---
layout: post
title: Visualising terror attacks in India and around the world.
---

So, one day I was just skimming through kaggle datasets and came across global **terrorism dataset.** I thought it would be very interesting to analyse this dataset and present some visualisations. 

A good amount of data cleaning as well as transformation was required for this analysis. The Global Terrorism Database (GTD) is an open-source database including information on terrorist events around the world from 1970 through 2016. I used **plotly library** for creating the visualisations using python. I used ipython notebook for the analysis, also pandas and numpy was used.

The global terrorism database consists of 170350 rows depicting the attacks and 135 columns which contain information about the attacks. The information about these 135 variables can be found at [this cookbook](http://start.umd.edu/gtd/downloads/Codebook.pdf).

Now, I will present some visualisations from the analysis. 

<iframe width="700" height="500" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~abhinavbh08/3.embed"></iframe>

The above plot shows how the number of attacks vary throughout the years starting from 1970 to 2016. So, we can see that the number of terrorist attacks have increased from 1970 to 1992. From 2011 to 2014, we can see that the number of attacks have increased at a rapid pace. 


**Next**, I will use a choropleth map from plotly to create a visualisation of the world which shows us the frequency of attacks country-wise. This step required some data cleaning as well as transformation as plotly accepts country codes, so I had to download the country codes and then map the countries to their codes and also do some cleaning of codes. 

<iframe width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~abhinavbh08/5.embed"></iframe>

By this plot, we can see at a high level the frequency of attacks.

**Next**, I will draw a bar chart describing the weapons used in India for the atacks. For this, I have mapped the weapons names to shorter names than there were originally.

<iframe width="700" height="500" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~abhinavbh08/7.embed"></iframe>

We can see from the above bar chart that most of the attacks have occurred using Bombs and firearms. 

**Next**, I will plot how the use of these modes of attacks have progressed throughout the years. This will show how the weapons use is varying through the years.

<iframe width="900" height="1600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~abhinavbh08/9.embed"></iframe>

So, from these plots, we can infer that the usage of bombs has increased progressively throughout the years. 
Use of firearms and incidenary has also been increasing in the recent years. 

